iQ3 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Ellen West
• Patrick Pichette
• Omid Kordestani
  Ronghua Wang * iii
Other Participants
• Eric J. Sheridan
• Justin Post
• Stephen Ju.  
• Mark S. Mahaney
• Ross A. Sandler
• Ben Schachter
• Anthony DiClemente
• Carlos Kirjner-Neto
• Douglas T. Anmuth
• Mark A. May
• Peter C. Stabler
• Heather A. Bellini
• Paul Vogel
• Brian J. Pitz
SSN: 431-23-1231
Driver License: F1121231
SSN: 431-23-1232
Driver License: F1121232
SSN: 431-23-1233
Driver License: F1121233
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator April_05_01
Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google, Inc. third quarter 2014 earnings conference call. This call is being
recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ellen West, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Ellen West
Thank you, Jamie. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With us today are Patrick Pichette and Omid Kordestani.
As you know, you can access our earnings release through our investor relations website located at
investor.google.com, so please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that
accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ Investor Relations page for the latest company news and updates.
This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later
today.
Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered
forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the
expected performance of our businesses and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a
number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we
undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in
light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk
factors that may affect our results.
Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin are
expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation and, as
applicable, other special items.
We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as
free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings
press release.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.
Patrick Pichette
Thanks, Ellen. As some of you may know, we have a new leader in our Investor Relations team at Google. Her name is
Ellen West. That's the great voice you just heard a minute ago, second ago. Ellen is a longtime Googler who joined us
in 2007. Although she's here with us today in Mountain View, she's actually based out of New York, and that will give
us a bit more footprint on the East Coast as well. So Ellen, welcome to the team.
What that, let's dive into the details of Google's financial performance for Q3. Our gross total consolidated revenue
grew a healthy 20% year-over-year to $16.5 billion and was up 4% quarter-over-quarter. Without currency fluctuations,
our gross total consolidated revenue growth would have been 19% year-over-year. Google sites revenue was also up
20% year-over-year to $11.3 billion, and was up 3% quarter-over-quarter driven by the strength in our Mobile Search.
Network revenue was up 9% year-over-year at $3.4 billion and was flat quarter-over-quarter, driven by improved
year-over-year growth in the AdMob and the AdExchange businesses. Finally, Google's other revenue grew a healthy
50% year-over-year to $1.8 billion and was up 15% quarter-over-quarter, this driven by year-over-year growth mainly
from the Play Store, but also complemented by an increase in licensing revenue.
Our global aggregate paid click growth was strong this quarter, up 17% year-over-year and up 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Aggregate CPCs were down only 2% year-over-year and flat quarter-over-quarter. And without currency fluctuations,
aggregate cost-per-click would've been down 1%, and in fact up 1% quarter-over-quarter. As we began to do in our last
earnings call, we continue to disclose paid clicks and cost-per-click changes by property type as well, in addition to the
aggregate number. So to that end, Google Sites paid clicks were up 24% year-over-year and up 4%
quarter-over-quarter. Google Sites CPC were down 4% year-over-year and down 1% quarter-over-quarter. Our
Network paid clicks were up 2% year-over-year and down 4% quarter-over-quarter, and Network CPCs were down 4%
year-over-year but up 2% quarter-over-quarter. Our aggregate monetization metrics continue to be impacted by a
number of factors including geographic mix, device mix, property mix, as well as ongoing product and policy changes.
Turning to geographic performance now, we saw solid performance in the U.S. as well as in the rest of the world. In
our earnings slides, which you can find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our
revenue by U.S., U.K., and the rest-of-world to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program, so
please refer to those slides for the exact calculations. U.S. revenue was up 15% year-over-year to $7 billion. The U.K.
was up 17% year-over-year to $1.6 billion, and in fixed FX terms the U.K. grew 10% year-over-year. In the U.K.,
growth was impacted by a combination of factors this quarter, including platform and property mix as well as tough
comps from year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter growth rates for a number of reasons including, for example,
weather. Our non-U.S. revenue excluding the U.K. was up 26% year-over-year to $7.9 billion. This accounted for 48%
of total revenue, which includes a $10 million benefit from our hedging program. In fixed FX term in fact, the rest of
the world also grew 26% year-over-year. Very healthy.
Let me now turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $3.3 billion or 23% of total advertising revenue. Our
non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $2.8 billion in Q3, which excludes stock-based compensation [SBC] and also a
non-cash impairment charge of $378 million related to a patent licensing royalty asset acquired as part of our Motorola
Mobility purchase. Non-GAAP operating expense totaled $5 billion, again excluding SBC, and as a result our
non-GAAP operating profit was $5 billion and our non-GAAP operating margin were 32% in Q3.
Headcount was up roughly 3,000 in Q3. In total, we ended the quarter with approximately 55,000 full-time employees,
and please note that the head count does include still approximately 3,500 full-time employees from the Motorola
business. In the past year, we continued to attract and hire the best talent from the best colleges and universities from
all around the world. Continuing our past trend, graduate starts are much more heavily concentrated in Q3, which is
part of why you're seeing the significant bump in head count, with the majority being tech hires, I want to kind of –
precise.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 22% for Q3, and which includes the impact of the impairment charge that I
mentioned earlier, which is a non-deductible for income tax purposes.
Let me turn now to cash management. OI&E, or other income and expenses, was $133 million. Interest income and
realized gains on investments offset the continued impact of expenses from our FX hedging program. And for more
details on OI&E, please do refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.
We continue to be happy with our strong operating cash flow at $6 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $2.4 billion, and
this quarter the majority of the CapEx was related to our data center construction, production equipment, and real estate
purchases, in that order. It's important to remember that our infrastructure supports all of our products, whether they are
core products like search or Ads, Maps or YouTube, but in addition to fueling our growth products like photos, and
Hangouts, Google for Work, and the cloud platform.
If you look at our data center announcements over the last four quarters, you also see that we've been really busy with
both groundbreakings and expansion all around the world, including Finland, Taiwan, Singapore, recently announced
Netherlands, in addition to our ongoing investments in the U.S. In total, our free cash flow was then $3.6 billion.
Before I close, want to give a brief update on Motorola. The team continues to work hard, and we look forward to
seeing them join the Lenovo team soon. Motorola had a great Q3 with strong user reviews for products like the Moto
X, Moto 360, and Moto Hint, clearly demonstrating the impressive momentum of the company.
So there you have it. Strong results with continued strong growth in both revenue and profits, and an optimism that
provides us the confidence to fund strategic growth opportunities, including the usual Android, Chromes, and
YouTube, but also Google for Work, and cloud, to name a few.
Before I hand things over to Omid, I would like to share with you some great news. I am really thrilled to announce
that Omid is now officially Google's Chief Business Officer, and this on a permanent basis. All of us at Google couldn't
be happier to see Omid at his post, running our business organization once again.
And with that, I'll turn it over to him for more details on our performance in the quarter. And after his remarks, as
usual, we will have Jamie open up the lines for your questions. Here you go, Omid.
Omid Kordestani
Thank you very much, Patrick. Hello, everyone.
I'm Omid Kordestani, I am happy to be back at my new, old job, and thank you for joining us this afternoon. I joined
Google back in 1999 to help get our business off the ground, and led our business operations until 2009. Since then,
I've served as an advisor to Larry, and outside Google, actively helped many entrepreneurs.
I'm thrilled to be back at Google leading our global business again. We continue to have the same boundless energy,
and endless curiosity we've always had as a company, and we are as focused as ever on our mission of making
information useful and accessible to everyone.
Case in point. We are really excited about this week's Android Lollipop launch. This is our largest release on Android
ever, with over 5000 APIs for developers. It adds new features, including better notifications, battery life, and security,
and introduces a refreshed, consistent visual style. And alongside the new devices, Nexus 6, Nexus 9, and Nexus
Player, consumers in India who bought the recently announced Android One will get the updates of the latest software
at the same time.
Now I will do a quick walk-through of the business highlights from Q3. As usual, we will give an overview of these
four areas: performance and brand advertising, our advertising platforms and our emerging non-ads businesses.
Let's start with performance advertising, the core of our business. People want the right information at the right time.
They don't want to have to think about whether it is on the web or in an app. We have learned this first hand as a
developer of many services, Maps, YouTube, Gmail, that also are some of the world's most popular mobile apps.
With that in mind, we have a simple goal with performance ads. Help marketers connect with customers at the right
moment to drive measurable results. Our partners have driven hundreds of millions of app downloads with AdMob and
our click to download formats. But most mobile apps are downloaded, used once, and eventually deleted. So we launch
new features to help advertisers reengage with users post download.
For example, advertisers can now deep link from their search ads directly into their mobile apps. To succeed with
multi-screen marketing, advertisers also need modern measurement tools so they can understand when their ads drive
phone calls from customers, result in conversions on other devices, or lead to store visits and purchases.
Last October, we announced Estimated Total Conversions, our effort to help marketers better measure the value of their
multi-screen advertising. We have worked to continue developing this product and launched cross device measurement
for display ads. Clients have already found that mobile display campaigns drive 15% more conversions than they had
previously measured.
Let's shift gears to talk about our shopping efforts. These dovetail nicely with performance ads. We are directly
connecting people with products and services, and then enabling them to buy, and have them delivered. We keep
making improvements to our products to help retailers.
Keeping inventory organized and up-to-date is a constant challenge for retailers. We help them manage this issue by
completing the transition of product listing ads to our shopping campaigns platform.
And finally, people often want to find stores near them to make a purchase in person. We have long had local inventory
ads that enable merchants to show customers this information in the U.S., and we launched these in the U.K., France,
Germany, Japan, and Australia last quarter. In summary, the core of our business, performance advertising, continues to
deliver great results.
Let's move on now to our brand business. Our objective is clear here: make digital the best possible canvas for creative
and effective brand building campaigns. First, let's talk about YouTube. Any conversation about great advertising starts
with great content. On YouTube, stars produce amazing content that our users love, from Bethany Mota, to Smosh to
Mental Floss.
Earlier this year, we launched Google Preferred to help connect brands with premium ad inventory on our most popular
YouTube channels. Since then, we have secured upfront commitments from top media agencies. We're just getting
started with YouTube and its potential. We've sold out the majority of our U.S. Google Preferred offering, which
represents among the top 5% of popular channels inventory on YouTube, and as result of terrific Brandcast events in
Germany, France, U.K., and Australia, we're seeing tremendous interest from local agency partners around the world.
Last quarter, we also saw some great progress in our brand efforts beyond YouTube. We launched new ad formats
customized for mobile screens. We also announced an expansion of YouTube's TrueView ads into AdMob's network of
more than 650,000 mobile apps. Every day, our teams work to develop both the products and terrific partner
relationships that enable us to tackle any digital marketing challenge across multiple channels together.
With encouragement from Google and YouTube, ABC executed a digital-first marketing plan for their new fall TV
lineup. The effort included custom five second ads for TrueView and collaborations with homegrown YouTube stars.
We are very excited about the new deal with Mondelez and Starcom MediaVest. This global agreement will focus on
video and display and is Mondelez's largest digital medial deal ever.
Next let's take a look at one of the fastest-growing parts of the digital advertising world, programmatic platforms for
agencies and publishers. For many years now, our goal has been to provide world-class technology for brands,
agencies, and publishers to power their ad businesses. Today, our DoubleClick suite is used by all major agencies, and
we are particularly focused on multi-screen and video.
DoubleClick Bid Manager is the go-to tool for marketers and agencies to navigate the rapidly growing programmatic
advertising space. It's doubled in size year-over-year by impression volume, and we really love the progress we see
here.
For publishers, we help them make money from the content via our publisher tools, from our Ad Exchange to
customized private exchanges which complement our core offerings. This quarter, we signed new private advertising
exchange deals with publishers like Fox TV and Edmonds. This helps publishers generate revenue from premium ad
space. We have nearly doubled the number of private exchanges running on our system year-over-year.
Finally, we are seeing remarkable momentum in our newer non-ads businesses. Whether it's Play, Hardware or Google
for Work, we continue to see strong growth and we're thrilled to be the platform for our partners successes as well.
Google Play's growth continues to impress. It's a linchpin of the amazing Android ecosystem. We brought Play Music
to 17 new countries, bringing the total to 45, and our expansion continues. Today, Play Movies is available in 93
countries, and Play Books is available in 61 countries.
On the hardware front, just yesterday, we unveiled three fantastic new Nexus devices: Nexus 6 phone, Nexus 9 tablet,
and Nexus Player, an Android-powered streaming media player.
This quarter we worked with HP, Toshiba and Acer to introduce five new Chromebook devices, and teamed up with
ASUS, LG, Motorola, Samsung, and Sony to help launch new Android Wear devices. We're also selling Chromebook
in six new countries. They are now available in 31 countries around the world. And we sold more than 1 million
Chromebooks for education this quarter, even more than last quarter.
Chromecast celebrated its first birthday this past quarter. It's been a smashing success. Users have hit the cast button
more than 400 million times since it launched to enjoy their favorite sports, music, premium movies, and TV shows. In
September, we added even more content to Chromecast including Disney content.
And we were so proud to launch Android One, an effort to make high-quality, low-cost smartphones available to as
many people as possible. We started in India and will be expanding to other countries, including Indonesia and the
Philippines, in the coming months.
For businesses, what was called Google Enterprise is now simply Google for Work. This business has great traction. In
addition to the tremendous growth in our Apps business, we have more than 1,800 sign-ups for Google Drive for Work
every week, plus there are almost a quarter of a billion active Google Drive users, including consumer, education and
business users.
We continue to invest in our growing cloud platform business, helping developers realize the promise of cloud
computing, by providing affordable on-demand access to world-class technology. We recently announced Google
Cloud Platform for Startups, and offer up to $100,000 in credits to enable the best and brightest startups to use Google's
Cloud platform.
Sony Music recently built an interactive app in less than three weeks using App Engine to engage fans tuning into One
Direction Day, an eight-hour YouTube live stream featuring the band, one of the largest ever YouTube music live
streams.
Lastly, our Marketing team had a great quarter as well. Google My Business helped more small businesses get online,
and our Art, Copy & Code projects showed advertisers the creative potential of digital marketing. And from the annual
Google Science Fair to more recent campaigns showcasing amazing content on Play, YouTube Stars, and the power of
the Google App, the magic of Google was on prominent display.
All told, it was another terrific quarter at Google, continued momentum in our core business, and exciting innovation in
new areas. Kudos to the Googlers around the world who made it all happen.
I'll turn it over to Patrick to wrap up and start our Q&A.
Patrick Pichette
Thank you, Omid. So, Jamie, if you want to give us the instructions, and we'll get going on the Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Eric Sheridan with UBS.
<Q - Eric J. Sheridan>: Thanks for taking the questions. So first one, maybe with the announcement that you're
expanding Google Shopping Express into other cities and rebranding it and new retailers are coming on, wanted to see
what you saw in those first few cities to think about extending it further into the other cities, and what you might be
hearing from feedback from retailers about adopting the platform, because a few also dropped off the platform at the
same time. I just wanted to get a little bit better color about how that was developing and how you're going to go
forward with it. Thanks.
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Thank you very much, Eric. So we're really trying to learn a lot here. Innovation is a messy
process, and especially with Google Express here, there's a lot of understanding that we need to have on improving
efficiency in the logistics process, trying to find price points that shoppers find attractive, and our goal is really to help
the 35 – over 35 merchant partners succeed and reach their customers. And I am a user of it, and I'm really impressed
by how much time it saves. I see the cars running around the city, around me. And I think our goal is really to take it a
step at a time and see the success, understand the logistics – logistical operations, how much it costs us to do this, and
can we deliver this basically in a successful way.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Just, Eric – just a couple of, kind of, additional points. One is, clearly we've announced this
week three other cities. So if you go back to the fundamental premise of kind of the argument we tabled which is – the
first thing was, would people show up and want this product? It's very clear people want this product. The second one
was – and that's why we're expanding the product.
The second question then is, we've had a lot of questions about monetization, and we've announced this week we're
taking real actions on the monetization service, both including commissions on these transactions for merchants, but
also service fees that were announced as well.
So from that perspective, we kind of think of it as now we're in phase two of this product where, according to our
business plan, right, we continue to kind of look for the barriers, the milestones. And then when we hit those
milestones, then we with enthusiasm keep on going.
All this to say, it is nevertheless a scale business so working on efficiencies, working on all of the issues that are related
to logistics, continues to be a big focus of ours. On the partners, we're really thrilled to have the partners we have. You
can expect as we kind of grow through this, that we have a few coming in, more coming in, few coming out. But
overall, very, very pleased with the trajectory there. I think you should see the announcements of this week as just kind
of a sign of optimism and momentum in it.
Thank you so much for your question, Eric.
<Q - Eric J. Sheridan>: Great.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Jamie, let's go to our next question.
Operator
And we'll go next to Justin Post with Merrill Lynch.
<Q - Justin Post>: Thank you. I'm wondering if you could help us at all, segregate the Search business from other
items in Google website, and just give us your view on the health of the Search business. And then comment a little bit
on that paid click deceleration. What is driving that, and do you even see that as an important metric? Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: So I'll take that. The two points is one, look, we don't give the breakdown of the Google Sites.
But actually, it's pretty healthy on all dimensions. I think that from that perspective, search is going well, and all of the
other dimensions of our Sites is actually doing pretty well. That's what you see in our kind of 20% year-over-year, just
for Sites, growth. So from that perspective, I think that we're pretty happy on that front.
On the CPC issue, it's pretty simple. I mean, we really had, again, you have to think of the CPC and the volume as one
basket that actually delivers. So monetization overall is still very strong. We're very happy with the monetization,
Jamie, and if we have in one quarter kind of movements between one or the other, that is just basically the continued
experimentation and the impact of all of the factors that I usually talk about. So from that perspective, there's nothing of
noteworthy to kind of mention this quarter. We are very happy with the trends in both cases.
<Q - Justin Post>: Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Thanks, Jamie. Jamie, we'll go to our next question. Sorry, Justin I meant. Jamie, we'll go to
our next question.
Operator
And we'll go next to Stephen Ju with Credit Suisse.
<Q - Stephen Ju>: Thanks. I think in the past you've talked about the opportunity cost not being there for the user
when they're trying to access your products and services, as a rationale for making investments. So is there any data
you can show on your newest users in the emerging markets who are going straight to mobile? Is it safe to assume that
consumption from these new users are running at a pretty similar growth trajectory with what you've seen historically
on a desktop and as well as your established markets or is their engagement with all of your products more intense?
And is there anything you can say in terms of what areas of your business are seeing the more intense level of
investments? Is it more your consumer focused initiatives or more your enterprise focus cloud initiatives? Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: So a couple of points there, and then if Omid has additional comments. One is clearly
emerging businesses, emerging markets are just fundamentally different than the more developed markets, right? If you
think of a country like Indonesia, or India where people go straight to mobile and so in that context, there's clearly, a lot
of differences between those markets, and how they are evolving, compared to what would've been 10 years ago in the
U.K. or the U.S. So from that perspective, I think that, and that's why you see us launch things like Android One, right?
When you have just under 2 billion people around the world that have already smartphones, the vast majority of the
population looks for things online. So these kind of initiatives that we're launching I think is the most important piece.
From an investment at Google, we're investing without giving you all the details, we are clearly investing in our core
business, it remains the focus of our activities. But if you look across, right, as Omid mentioned, he mentioned the
Cloud business, the Google for Work business, all of these other areas, the Play business, the hardware business, these
are all areas where we're investing, and we're investing with enthusiasm. With each their own specific business case,
each of them actually looking for what is their growth and profitability models, and we just monitor them pretty tightly.
Okay.
<Q - Stephen Ju>: Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: You're welcome. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Mark Mahaney with RBC Capital Markets.
<Q - Mark S. Mahaney>: Hey, Patrick. In describing the Google search strength, you said you saw particular strength
in mobile search. Could you elaborate?
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Yes. No. I mean, look, it's very clear that mobile is still a big part of our growth, and we're
very pleased about it. I mean, but when we talk about mobile, I think that there's a couple of things. One is you have to
continue to look at both, the growth in volume, and the growth in pricing, so these are long-term trends that we're
seeing. The CPCs and the clicks, they can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It just happens that we've made some
changes this quarter that improved the mobile pricing while impacting the lower quality clicks, and that's what you see
reflected in our numbers.
Again, but I wouldn't just as an overall statement remember to everybody that I would not attribute the aggregate CPCs
movement just to that one factor of mobile, right? Because there's still a full factor mix, as I talked about in my remarks
about geography and product changes. So all of this actually makes a big factor as well. So that's what we've seen in the
strength of mobile, but we're still very pleased with the momentum.
Thanks, Mark. Jamie, we'll go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Ross Sandler with Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Ross A. Sandler>: Thanks, guys. I have two questions, first on the U.K. and then second on mobile payments. So
the U.K. growth looks like it's dropping off pretty hard on an ex-FX basis, either one-year or two-year growth rates, so
I think this is an economy that folks generally think is supposed to be holding up pretty well. So can you talk about
what you're seeing in the U.K.? You had mentioned weather and a few other things, but a little more color on what's
going on with the ad market in the U.K.
And then mobile payments, that's an area that's getting a lot of attention lately. Can you just give us an update on where
the Google Wallet team stands and what kind of traction you're seeing in terms of user adoption and maybe how you
plan on addressing merchant payments, kind of outside of in-app or things from the App Store? Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: So, Ross, why don't I take the first question, and then Omid will give you the answer to the
second. As we talk about the U.K., a couple points are worth note. One is, the U.K. contributed roughly 10% of our
total revenue this quarter, and that's been the same for kind of the past many quarters, and in fact, if you go back years,
it'll still be in the same range. So there's nothing kind of fundamental that is worth noting. It's still a pretty good market
with decent growth.
The issue of deceleration this quarter, specifically, I mentioned a number of elements, right? So platform mix. We do
see a mixture of desktop/tablet searches having a greater impact in the U.K. than anywhere else than we see in our
network of countries.
On property mix, you'll remember we talked about this also on prior calls, AFS, as a business, has a much bigger part
of our both U.K. and U.S. business, so it'll skew to those geographies. And so those are kind of some of the elements.
And as I mentioned, year-over-year comps were difficult, and if you have a great summer in terms of weather or bad
summer in weather, it can have some real impact on the growth rates as well. So it's a combination of a number of
factors that the U.K. has driven our performance, but still pretty pleased. But I won't, that's really what's going on there.
In terms of the payments, I'll let Omid give you an update there.
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Hi, Ross. I think our goal here is really achieving mass merchant adoption, so the availability
of these NFC devices is about that and also making it easier for consumers to replace their wallets with their
smartphones, hopefully, more and more over time. So reducing friction in everyday shopping experiences is how we
approach it, and the focus on the user, and we're really developing a fully functional payment system. So as you may
know, users can send money today to friends through Gmail using the Wallet app. We have loyalty and gift cards that
can be stored the Wallet app, and the Buy With Google button makes it possible for users to make purchases very
quickly with two clicks. So again, it's this two-fronted focus on merchant adoption and removing the friction for users.
Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Thanks, Ross. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Ben Schachter with Macquarie.
<Q - Ben Schachter>: Omid, after many years of waiting for television budgets to shift online, it appears to be
happening in a more accelerated fashion. So, one, do you agree with that, and two, could you just discuss YouTube's
positioning versus competitors, and in particular, Facebook Video.
And then Patrick, couple of quick ones for you. One, given the evolution of tax laws in Europe, how are you and how
should we be thinking about Google's tax rate over the coming years? And then also, just any comments on stock comp
being particularly high this quarter? Thanks.
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Thank you, Ben. This is Omid. So the way we look at it is that users are really accessing
Internet on large screens with high broadband speeds, and we're getting great monetization on these screens, and
advertisers are really paying attention. So we have seen a real shift where marketers and agencies who have historically
built their brands on TV are really reorienting this toward investments on digital. And in regards to YouTube, our focus
here is really this focus on investments in more content, more creativity.
And I think you also mentioned you had a Facebook comment. What they're doing, I think, in video has always helped
us with bringing more attention and more innovation to the space, so we welcome that, and the way we're going to
approach it is just continue to invest in our platform and on the creators, and building better and better monetization
solutions. Just again, you may know some of these metrics, but I'll say it again. We have 400 hours of content that are
uploaded every minute, and partner revenues up 60% from 2012 to 2013 on YouTube.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Great. Let me jump, Ben, on the YouTube-specific questions. On the tax issues, I mean,
you've heard about the Ireland announcement earlier this week on the double Irish tax structure. I mean, for us, we've
always said that it's for politicians to decide what laws they want to put in then for companies just to comply with those
laws, and that's what we're basically doing.
So we're deeply committed to Ireland. We've worked there for many years. We have a great – that's our headquarters.
We have over 2,500 employees there. And so from that perspective, we're committed to the place. And we're going to
work with the authorities just to kind of get clarifications over this, but it's really way too early to tell what's going to
happen. So we're just – just like you, getting the information, the news, and we're going to work with the authorities to
understand it better, and then comply with the laws.
In terms of stock-based compensation, a few – just a few notes on this one for this quarter. We have – it's the time of
year where we do equity refresh. And from a timing perspective, last year we did the equity refresh in Q2 instead of
Q3. So there's kind of like a geography of Q2 versus Q3 that kind of hit us in Q3. In addition to this, we – if you go to
our filings, you'll see that our executive compensation, so think of the top 15 or top 20, I can't remember the exact
numbers but it's stated there, that they do their refreshes every two years, and it happens to be this quarter as well. And
then finally, I mean, we obviously have more employees. So it's just a compounding set of factors, Ben, that I kind of
lumped it all into Q3. So it's no more, no less than that on that one. So...
<Q - Ben Schachter>: Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Thanks for your question. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
<Q - Anthony DiClemente>: Thanks a lot. Just on core operating expenses, is there anything in particular, Patrick,
that you might call out in terms of expense growth in the quarter, as you have operating deleverage through the P&L?
I'm just wondering going forward if that's likely to continue.
And then a question for Omid, I suppose, on YouTube, you mentioned – I know that YouTube's investing in its studio
as a way to help along new talent, new home-grown talent, onto the new platform directly. I'm wondering if you could
talk about the multi-channel networks, how YouTube's relationships with the multi-channel networks, the MCNs, are
evolving at a high level, how you guys think about that dynamic between the home-grown YouTube talent itself, as
compared to talent that resides on the MCNs? Thanks.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Okay, Anthony. Thank you for your question. Why don't I jump in right now on just expenses
for the quarter. I think if I had two comments to make on expenses in the quarter, you may notice that relative to a few
models that I saw out there, R&D is – was higher and other areas are a bit lower. And I just want to highlight that we
hire and we focus clearly our hiring in our tech payrolls or, think of it as, all of our engineering. And that skews to
R&D. So as we bring on people and we push forward the growth of our – we really focus it in the areas that are going
to make a fundamental difference to Google, which is engineering and by doing so, it kind of skews to R&D. So that's
why R&D was maybe a bit higher than expected by some models out there. And so that's one piece.
And then the other one is, I just wanted to reiterate that, I mean, it's very clearly an extraordinary quarter from a hiring
perspective for the comments I've made before. And so, we're kind of clearly seeing that, but at the same time I
wouldn't say that this is clearly a new run rate for us or anything like that. It just happened that most of these kind of
college students end up landing in Q3, and we have the result of a banner year from a hiring perspective. All through, it
takes a year to hire them all, and then they come into this quarter. So that's really the – kind of the two big elements that
have actually flowed, Anthony, through our P&L this quarter.
<Q - Anthony DiClemente>: Okay, great. Thanks.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: I'll let Omid answer the YouTube question.
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Yes, Anthony. So again, we have a very, very partnership-minded organization here, and
company as a whole. So we view MCNs as, I mean, organizations that are really going to help a developer of great
content, support the creators on YouTube. Just like we are doing that with YouTube Studios, I think MCNs can help a
lot of these become future stars, hopefully, and develop more success. So just, we view it as another form of
partnership that we need to pay attention to and support, so that's how we look at it.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Thank you, Anthony. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Carlos Kirjner with Sanford Bernstein.
<Q - Carlos Kirjner-Neto>: Thank you. I have two questions. Patrick, is CapEx still driven by real estate and
construction? And if you ask, can you explain in a bit more detail what changed about 18 months ago in the way you
acquire real estate and build to drive the inflection in capital-intensity that we have seen? It looks like you operated for
more than 10 years in one way, and then there was a shift that has led to this massive inflection. So what happened
there?
Secondly, do you think that Google Login is adopted or is about to be adopted by large enough number of important
mobile apps for you to be competitive and long term when it comes to offering mobile targeting attribution? And can
you give us an update on developer adoption of deep linking ? Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Okay. So I can certainly take the first and let Omid answer the second. I've made that
comment before in the prior quarter, Carlos. The CapEx intensity in our CapEx program has been built by a
combination of, as I mentioned in previous quarters, catching up when we were running too hot in terms of tightening
of capacity. And so, on one side I am very happy that when we kind of really torque our utilization rates, on the other
side it creates a lot of operational issues. And that led us to believe that in fact investing ahead of the curve was actually
a strategic imperative for us to make sure that if we have the extra capacity, we will grow into it. And I mean the
difference between certainly on the data center side, right, the data center construction and machines. And you will
have noticed that this quarter again, the priorities, if you look at the nomenclature I gave, right, construction of data
center is the primary. So it is the core infrastructures, it's groundbreaking, and it is setting up the core infrastructures.
Machine was the second quarter for this quarter, but you'll notice that it for flip flops with real estate. In the case of the
real estate, I mean, you – we have been investing for our campus and otherwise when we see – when we hit this kind of
minimum scale, we need to kind of make investments in real estate. And again with an eye of looking to the long-term
rather than just filling at least for the next 12 months or 24 months, because once you kind of, if you decide you're
going to grow in a place, then need the capacity for multi years, so all of these factors have actually kind of been the
driver for the shift in capital intensity that you have seen over the last 18 months. So that is basically the explanation,
Carlos.
I will let Omid kind of jump on the second question about the mobile question.
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Sure. Thanks, Carlos.
So the AdMob network, which is 900 million unique devices per month, and our own apps are hugely popular, Gmail,
Maps, Google App and YouTube. And our focus is also is helping developers generate app downloads and
reengagement with users who have already downloaded their apps, as I mentioned in my remarks earlier. And we're
really helping drive hundreds of millions of app downloads through app promotion products. Again, the goal here is
that you just search and not worry about where the answer is, is it on a web page or an app? And we have been in this
game for a while.
Four years ago, we acquired AdMob and have continued to invest in this space heavily. And this quarter we launched
the next generation of these app promotion ads across Google Search, Google Display Network and YouTube. So we're
really focused in this area to help the developers and our users.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: I think we can clearly say that we're pretty pleased with the developer adoption of this. They
see huge a huge benefit, so they're actually investing in it. Thank you, Carlos.
<Q - Carlos Kirjner-Neto>: Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Douglas Anmuth with JPMorgan.
<Q - Douglas T. Anmuth>: Thanks for taking the questions. Just two for Omid. First, you talked about Estimated
Conversions and seeing a 15% increase there. Can you just talk about whether you think that's actually leading to more
spend at this point from advertisers?
And then secondly, are you seeing mobile like-for-like pricing improvements at this point? And what gives you the
confidence in mobile closing the gap with desktop over time?
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Okay. So both are really good questions. They're related really. I think the way this is going
to play out is that I think advertisers are going to, with these tools, be able to just understand conversions better. Where
is it happening? And then the dynamics of how those changes is all the way back to adjusting bids and then paying
attention to where the conversions are coming from.
So again, I think just to maybe highlight some examples for you, the fashion retailer, Express, who is an early tester
found that the overall return on their ad spend doubled when off-line sales were included in the online advertising
results. So we're just continuing to invest here, and get this right. It is too early to figure out the impact exactly on
revenue, but we expect Estimated Total Conversion to help the advertisers truly measure this, and ultimately adjust
their bidding, and just get much more sophisticated in these measurements. I hope that answers.
<Q - Douglas T. Anmuth>: And mobile on a like-for-like basis?
<A - Omid Kordestani>: The way we are focused on this is that users really are using the screens interchangeably,
simultaneously throughout the day. And we really are not at this point doing this like-by-like comparisons or comment
on it, because we think it's still early, and we're really focused on just delivering the results, and it took many years, for
example, for the desktop ecosystem to develop the right ad formats, and that really take advantage of the platform. So I
think we just need to continue innovating, experimenting here to get it right.
<Q - Douglas T. Anmuth>: Thank you.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Thanks, Douglas. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Mark May with Citi.
<Q - Mark A. May>: Thanks for taking my question. Whether or not there's been quite a bit of attention paid to cloud
services space and Google in particular. Wondering if you can comment a little bit around the traction that you're
getting with compute engine, and what sort of impact that, that is having on revenue expenses and CapEx for the
business.
And then secondly, hoping, I think earlier you made a comment around some changes you've made in mobile that have
impacted some of your network click metrics. So hoping you could elaborate a bit more on that.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Okay. Do you want me to...?
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Go ahead.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: I will just jump on the cloud, and then the last piece, and then maybe, I wasn't sure what the
very first part of your question, Mark, was. But clearly, cloud is an area that is kind of booming. Right? We know that
the long-term trends are very clear for us, which is the vast majority of businesses, everybody's moving their
infrastructures to the Cloud. So and it is an area where we have fundamentally great assets to contribute to this industry,
both in terms of the flexibility, the cost structure, the technology. And that's why we're investing heavily in there.
We're seeing great progress from an adoption perspective, signing up new customers, and from a CapEx. Obviously,
you need to kind of, that's one of them that as I mentioned on the CapEx story with Carlos a few minutes ago, if you do
take off, and you really get the kind of customer adoption that you expect, if you don't have the capacity in place, it can
have a really important kind of differential in your success. So there is one that we're keeping a pretty close eye on
from a CapEx perspective, and making sure that we have the option value.
On the – the third question was mobile did have network click. Yes. Clicks and CPCs always fluctuate from quarter to
quarter. It just happens that we have, as I mentioned, made some changes this quarter that improved our mobile pricing
while impacting low quality clicks. Sometimes it goes, if you think of a long-term trend in the mobile sector, a piece of
our products, sometimes you kind of put new change in the network, and then it creates a lot of clicks for it, but then
the CPCs are much lower. And then if it doesn't actually create something that's really good for the user, you need to
kind of pull back on it, that's you've heard, for example, parallel to the AFS business.
So it's kind of constantly fluctuating. What's really important to like that is really the combined volume and pricing
growth. And so for us, it's very clear that we're doing some great work in this area, and monetization in the aggregate is
doing very well. That's really what we're, like on a quarter over quarter basis, don't panic about little movements here
and there. You look at the fundamental trends, and that's where we're very pleased.
Did you have a first, was there a first question that I missed, Mark?
<Q - Mark A. May>: No. I was hoping on cloud that maybe you could put some numbers behind the level of traction
in terms of number of customers, impact on expenses, CapEx, the level of investment in the cloud...?
<A - Patrick Pichette>: I see. Okay. So, I mean, I've given you what I can give you on that. Again, we're really thrilled
by momentum there and our focus in that area.
<Q - Mark A. May>: Thanks.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Thanks, Mark. Jamie, we'll go to our next question, please.
Operator
And we'll go next to Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
<Q - Peter C. Stabler>: Thanks for taking the question. One for Omid. Going back to Estimated Total Conversions,
I'm wondering if we could expect odometry to be integrated into the DoubleClick platform, and how that may or may
not work with the Estimated Total Conversions tool?
And then finally, I'm wondering if you could comment on your work around coming up with a solution that reduces the
dependence upon cookies and perhaps introduces a cross-platform, or cross device ID for Google, and what impact that
could have on the market. Thank you.
<A - Omid Kordestani>: Sure. I think, again, it's early for us to call out odometry. It's a great attribution solution, and
we've been investing in that tool for a long time now, and trying to just get this right by all the innovation that's
happening within Google, and just really understanding the impact of these usage models and between the mobile
devices and desktop.
And so, I think we're going to look at the – everything that's available out there, both what we're developing and
partners out there that we could partner with, and continue to invest here. It's going to take us, I think, a while, just like
we've experienced before with search, to get this right and have a real end-to-end solution for marketers and publishers.
And so, I think you'll see a lot of innovation in this space, what Facebook recently announced another approach, and
we're going to study that and just figure out what is the right set of offerings from us. So I guess unfortunately, I can't
give you a very specific answer here. But I think what you'll see from us is, pay a huge amount of attention here, make
the measurements, see the impact, and then offer a full suite to our customers.
<A - Patrick Pichette>: Yeah, so just basically, too early to speculate on these issues. But clearly it's an area of focus
of the company.

14685906102609842252788209059268